## Matlab Music Generator

During my introductory Signal Analysis Class, AAE 301, my professor demonstrated on Matlab how you can use the 'sound' command to generate a noise using a set frequency sine wave. This command caught my interest, and I began experimenting with modifying this frequency to make musical notes, with the option to control what octave they were played in. I even implemented a time step feature for the frequency, so that the BPM of whatever song you were trying to make could be set according to user preference. I created a Matlab script, tone.m, that contained a tone function that could control the note, octave, length, and pause following the note. Using this function, the script song_manager.m is where I began making music, first testing the function on a simple song, 'Hot Crossed Buns'. After I verified that the function was working correctly, I got more ambitious, coding the classic John Williams' song, 'The Imperial March'. I also added an script, imperial_crest.m, that would print an ASCII text generation of the Imperial Crest from Star Wars in the command window as the song plays. 

Though this code is somewhat simple and silly, It helped give me a better understanding of how frequencies and sine waves are perceived by both humans and computers. Finding the correct frequency for certain notes and seeing how octaves changed the music helped me understand how music and sound can be broken down into simple digital signals, much like how most music is streamed / played digitally today. It also helped me grasp the concepts of Fourier sine and cosine transfers I was learning in class and how they can be used in signal processing. 

[Github Repository of my Code](https://github.com/sconkle/matlabmusic)
