## Purdue Orbital
Purdue Orbital is a technical, student-run organization that I was a part of during my Sophomore through Senior year of college. Orbital's goal is to use an experimental "Rockoon"
(rocket balloon hybrid) to launch a cube satellite into orbit. The rockoon consists of a launch structure that houses solenoids for in air stabilization, 3 landing legs, a drogue chute, and the rocket which suspended beneath the launch structure like a gondola. The launch structure and the rocket both had onboard raspberry pi computers that were used for GPS tracking, telemetry data from our sensors, and communication with ground station control. The launch structure was attached to a weather balloon that would help take the rocket most of the way out of the atmosphere, greatly reducing the amount of fuel needed for a successful orbit burn.

Purdue Orbital's multidisciplinary team took on all aspects necessary to help realize this lofty goal, including research & development, design & manufacturing, marketing, outreach, recruitment, and fundraising. In my first year on the club, I was assigned to the Systems Engineering team and used my time to learn NASA's Systems Engineering handbook, decision/risk matrices, and the overall system of our rockoon. I worked closely with the Avionics team, serving as their liaison and gaining knowledge of how their system fit in with the other subteams. I later joined the Avionics team full time and worked with team members to develop hardware circuits necessary for the rocket and launch structure Raspberry Pi computers. My Junior year, I took on the role of Avionics Design Lead with another team member, focusing on developing the hardware and software necessary for our onboard computers and sensors. During this time, the rockoon system was beginning to take shape, and the theoretical ideas of all the different subteams were being manufactured into final parts of the design. My major project this year was the creation of the emergency abort circuit for the rockoon. This system was necessary for FAA clearance of our launch and for the safety of our team and any passerbys during the launch.

This circuit became known as the Quick Deflation Method, or QDM for short. The QDM circuit operated on a dead man's switch that would automatically trigger if communication from the ground station to the rockoon was lost for 2 minutes. Upon this loss of signal, the QDM circuit would activate a spring loaded nichrome 'guillotine' that would superheat and cut through the rope holding the launch structure and rocket to the weather balloon. This would allow a drogue chute to deploy and bring the launch structure back down to ground safely. During the process of building and testing this circuit, I also took on the role of Orbital's Testing Engineer. In this role, I designed safe and effective testing procedures to ensure subsystems were functioning correctly and all deliverables for a certain subsystem were being met. After designing these tests and creating necessary documentation, I would oversee these tests to make sure we were getting the data we needed and that proper safety measures were being followed. Before the start of the pandemic, we had a successful static launch of our rocket from beneath our launch structure, helping us get closer to realizing our final goal of getting to space.  

[Organization Website] (https://www.purdueorbital.com/)

[Subteam Overview] 
